h1. tikz.js

_Render a focused TikZ subset as inline SVG directly in the browser._

tikz.js is a small JavaScript library for turning TikZ source into inline SVG on the client side. It is built for simple browser usage: put TikZ code into HTML, load one script, and let the page render diagrams automatically.

h2. Why tikz.js?

* Browser-first workflow with inline SVG output
* No runtime dependencies
* Vanilla JavaScript implementation
* Automatic rendering of elements with @class="tikz"@
* Small, reference-driven scope instead of broad but fragile syntax coverage
* Live playground for experimenting with TikZ snippets

If you want Mermaid-style convenience for a practical subset of TikZ, tikz.js is the target.

h2. How it works

Include the bundled script and place TikZ code inside any block element with the @tikz@ class.

bc.. <script src="/dist/tikz.min.js"></script>

<div class="tikz">
\begin{tikzpicture}
  \draw (0,0) -- (2,0) -- (2,2) -- (0,2) -- cycle;
  \fill[fill=red] (1,1) circle (0.3);
  \node at (1,2.4) {Square};
\end{tikzpicture}
</div>

The library renders @.tikz@ elements on @DOMContentLoaded@ and also exposes these browser APIs:

* @Tikz.renderAll()@
* @Tikz.renderElement(element)@
* @Tikz.renderToSvg(source)@

h2. Current feature set

tikz.js currently focuses on a small but useful subset of TikZ.

* @\draw@, @\fill@, and @\node@
* Coordinates such as @(x,y)@, projected @(x,y,z)@, and polar forms like @(30:2)@
* Paths with @--@, @rectangle@, @circle@, @ellipse@, @grid@, and @cycle@
* Orthogonal connectors with @|-@ and @-|@
* Cubic Bezier curves and supported arc forms
* Arrow heads: @->@, @<-@, and @<->@
* Named nodes and anchors like @(n.east)@ and @anchor=north@
* Directional node placement such as @above right@
* Styling with @draw=@, @fill=@, @text=@, @color=@, line widths, dash patterns, opacity, named colors, and hex colors
* Simple @\foreach@ expansion, basic @\tikzset@ style expansion, and comment stripping

h2. What it is good at

tikz.js is a good fit for:

* Documentation pages with embedded diagrams
* Blog posts and notes that already use TikZ syntax
* Lightweight educational or technical content
* In-browser previews for a controlled TikZ subset

The project grows from real examples and compares generated SVG against LaTeX/TikZ reference output where practical.

h2. Known limits

This is not a full TikZ implementation.

* Full TeX macro expansion is not implemented
* Text layout is browser and SVG based, not TeX exact
* Matrix-heavy and decorative shapes are still evolving
* Some supported shapes are currently approximate rather than fully faithful to LaTeX
* Broad TikZ library coverage, scopes, transforms, and general style inheritance are still outside the current target

That tradeoff is intentional: a smaller subset that behaves reliably is more useful than broad support with fragile rendering.

h2. Demo and playground

The repository includes two browser-facing pages:

* @index.html@ for demo examples and visual reference comparisons
* @editor.html@ for live editing, SVG copy, and SVG download

The live editor also keeps the last source in local storage, which makes quick iteration easy.

h2. Example diagrams

Current demos cover examples such as:

* Closed paths
* Rectangles and circles
* Dashed lines
* Curved arrows
* Bidirectional arcs
* Orthogonal connectors
* Circle edge labels
* Axis and grid diagrams with anchors and point labels

h2. Development status

The project is currently at version @0.1.0@ and is being developed as a reference-driven browser renderer for TikZ to SVG.

Core project characteristics:

* MIT licensed
* No runtime dependencies
* Bundled browser builds in @dist/tikz.js@ and @dist/tikz.min.js@
* Fast JavaScript regression tests plus optional LaTeX comparison checks

h2. Getting started

bc.. npm install
npm run build
npm test

For fidelity checks against local LaTeX output:

bc.. npm run test:latex

h2. Project links

* Source code: replace with your repository URL
* Demo page: replace with your published demo URL
* Playground: replace with your published editor URL
* Compatibility notes: @SUPPORTED_TIKZ.md@
* License: @LICENSE@

h2. Summary

tikz.js brings a practical TikZ subset to the browser with inline SVG output, a small footprint, and a workflow centered on concrete examples and reference-based verification. It is best suited to sites and tools that want the familiarity of TikZ without requiring a full LaTeX rendering pipeline.
